---
layout: post
title: How I Ended Up Starting a Python Workshop
---

Today's story is one that I hope will inspire you to put yourself out there. You
never know what opportunities you will come across just by hanging around the
right places and talking to people.

Late last year I decided that I needed to start socializing a bit more with
other developers.  I had noticed that my skills development had stagnated
somewhat, and I was itching to learn something new.  I turned to the popular
site [meetup.com](https://meetup.com) and started looking around for what was
available.  Being a Python developer by day, I immediately joined my [local
Python meetup](https://www.meetup.com/Python-Artists-of-Arkansas/) (along with a
few others), and planned to attend at the next meeting.  After attending one
meeting, I was impressed by the quality of the presentation given that evening,
but I noticed that while there were over 300 people in the group on meetup.com,
only about 15 or 20 people had showed up.  The organizer also announced that we
had a lack of people volunteering to give future presentations and put out a
call for participation.

This is what put the thought in my head that maybe this was something _I_ could
do. Really, why not? You don't have to have anything special to be able to give
a talk, just the confidence to get up in front of people. With the start of the
new year, I was signed up to give [my first talk](/2018/01/25/threading-in-python/).

And you know what?  As someone who was awkward in school, always afraid to give
presentations in class, and someone who generally likes to be left alone, _I had
a ton of fun_.  It was nerve wracking, but it introduced me to the entire group
that attended that night, and as a result there were several people who came up
to talk to me afterwards.  Some just wanted to tell me that they enjoyed the
talk and asked for the slides, but with others I had lengthy conversations with
about programming, work, and ambitions.

The next month I fully intended to come to the meetup as just another attendee,
but unfortunately the person who was supposed to present ended up having an
unexpected scheduling conflict, and the organizer asked me if there was any way
I could present.  With only days to prepare, I threw together a slideshow like I
was a procrastinating college student again (at the expense of an increasingly
large pile of dishes and laundry).  Somehow, I managed to pull through, and gave
[my second talk](/2018/02/22/building-webapps-in-tornado/).

With my sudden increased involvement in our small meetup, the organizer decided
to approach me about ways we could potentially improve the group.  Don't get me
wrong though, he had an ulterior motive. Running a meetup takes time and/or
monetary commitments.  He wanted to ensure that if he was traveling for work (or
just tired that month), someone else could organize things, grab some pizza and
beer, and make sure that the presenter shows up.

At this point I'd like to stress that all of this was just from me stepping up
and being available. I haven't always been able to be available, I have a busy
life just like everyone else, but simply by volunteering I've gone from
attending my first meetup to becoming an organizer in less than 6 months. I
wouldn't have gotten here if I didn't sacrifice a few evenings, if I didn't
volunteer, and if I didn't ask questions.  I don't want to make it out to be how
awesome I am.  I'm not, I was just there and eager.

Which brings me to the main reason why I'm writing this post. Starting in April
2018, I will be leading a bi-monthly Python workshop as part of my local meetup
group. I have absolutely no idea what I'm doing, or if anyone will even show up.
I'm hoping that I'll get a couple dozen people that come in.  This first meeting
I'm expecting some people come in for basic help like getting Python set up for
the first time, or figuring out how to use PyCharm or VS Code for Python
development.  Maybe someone will show up with a hard problem that needs some
brainstorming.  After seeing how these go, depending on the feedback I get, I'm
also interested in reaching out to organizations like Software Carpentry for
more directed training material.  I think it would be pretty sweet to start
teaching classes, even if it's just introductory material.

